[MUSIC]
Before we move on to
the [INAUDIBLE] allocation,
let's see what Dirichlet distribution is.
So it's probability density
function is given as follows.
It is a distribution
over the vector theta.
Its components should solve to 1 and
b non-negative.
This is called a simplex.
A really convenient way to
interpret this is a triangle.
So I have a triangle with three nodes,
they will correspond to
the coordinates (1,0,0),
(0,0,1), and (0,1,0).
And the vector theta will correspond to
the barycentric coordinates of the point.
For example, this red points would have
the coordinance 0.3, 0.1, and 0.5.
Since first and
the third coordinates are large,
this point is near the left and
the upper nodes.
So the distribution is parameterized by
parameter alpha, which is also a vector.
We assume that it's
[INAUDIBLE] non-negative.
The probability density function is
some normalization constant one of over
meta function of alpha times,
a product over coordinates of the vector.
The corresponding coordinate
theta K power alpha k-1.
So by varying the parameter alpha, we can
get different shapes of the distribution.
For example,
if all alphas are less than 1.
We will have some
ball-shaped distribution.
And the most probable positions
would be sparse vectors,
that have one coordinate that is large,
and the others are small.
If on the other hand all
offers are greater than 1,
we will have a unimal distribution.
We can also have different
values of coordinates of alpha.
For example, if alpha is 5, 2, 2,
as shown left, the distribution would be
concentrated around the first node,
that has coordinates 1, 0, 0.
If for
example we have alpha equal to 5, 5, 2,
then the distribution will be concentrated
around the bottom edge of the triangle.
The statistics of this
distribution are given as follows.
For example, the mean of the expected
value of the coordinate i,
the expected value of theta i,
can be obtained as the ratio between
corresponding alpha i over
the sum over all values of alpha.
This is alpha0.
And the covariance is given as follows.
Also note that when k is equal to 2,
we get a beta distribution.
So the beta distribution is a case
the Dirichlet distribution,
when we have only two dimensions.
All right, as always,
let's see how we can apply this
distribution in a real world example.
Imagine that you develop an online game,
and
the characters can select the strength,
the stamina, and
the speed of their characters.
So the player has some
credit that equals to 1, and
he can distribute it for
these three criterions.
For example, here,
the player1 assigns more credit for
the strength, and so
his play would be stronger.
However, he compromise for
the stamina and speed.
The second player however,
assigned equal amounts of values for
stamina speed, and
he compromised for the strength.
The third player assigned equal credit for
all three criterions.
And so if we collect the statistics
over all our players,
we could have something like this.
It is really intuitive to model this
using the Dirichlet distribution.
We could estimate the parameter
alpha from our dataset,
from the statistics that
we gather from the players.
And we can estimate it to be for
example, 3, 1, 1.
This would mean that in your game,
most of the players prefer
stamina over strength and speed.
So actually, there is one more property
that I want to tell you about.
The Dirichlet prior is actually
a conjugate to the multinomial likelihood.
If you don't remember,
let me remind you what conjugate prior is.
So the prior p P of theta is conjugate
to the likelihood P of X given theta.
If the posterior lies in the same
family of distributions as the prior.
So here's our multinomial likelihood.
It equals to some normalization constant
times the product of all coordinates,
theta i, power xi.
So this is a distribution over counts.
You will have for
example a dice that has six sides.
The key here would be equal to 6.
We will have like six possible outcomes.
And x, for example x1, would be equal
to the number of times we had number 1.
And also n equals to the number of
times that we conducted our experiment.
So actually all x case should sum up to n.
And here is our prior, Dirichlet prior.
We will try to compute the posterior.
We would multiply the likelihood and
the prior.
And so the posterior would be
proportional to the following function.
Product of theta k power alpha k,
plus xk minus 1.
We obtain this formula by rearranging
the terms after multiplication.
And also notice that it has actually
a beta distribution up to a normalization
constant.
All right, so
we can compute the posterior by
multiplying the likelihood and the prior.
If we rearrange the terms,
we'll get the following formula.
This will be the product
over all dimensions.
The probability of the corresponding
dimension power alpha k plus xk minus 1.
Now, hear that it is actually
a Dirichlet distribution,
up to a normalization Gaussian.
And so the posterior is actually
a Dirichlet distribution over theta.
And the vector of parameters would
be obtained as alpha k plus xk,
at each position.
So we just sum up the two vectors.
[MUSIC]